On March 4th, 2026, one of the largest
LM open source organization, Quinn, has
imploded with its tech lead, Junyan Lin
or Justin Lynn, who pretty much raised
Quinn like a child all the way back from
2023, now leaving Alibaba, aka the
Chinese Amazon, which is the parent
company behind Quinn. Quinn has been the
major pillar of open research that was
going head-to-head with Meta Lama
series, and eventually replace Llama
series as the go-to model for academic
research after the flop of Llama for
series. So, not only has Quinn been
pushing open source models ever since
the early days of LLM, they are also the
ones that drive small to midscale
academic research forward. If you see
any current LM research papers that uses
less than 10 billion parameters model,
well, Quinn model is probably the one
that's being used in the experiments.
But some of you might say, I might be
giving Quinn too much credit as Deep
Seek is also another lab that has
revolutionized the field. Well, in my
opinion, if Deep Seek is the Mount
Everest of AI research, then Quinn is
like the Himalayas of AI research.
They're kind of like the ying and yang
of open research where one breaks the
path while another paves the road to
help everyone to get there. And I feel
like this balance is very
underappreciated, which may have also
led to the implosion of Quinn. And just
a few days before this big news, Quinn
even released the 3.5 series that
includes a total of eight models at
different sizes with its small models
also being complimented by Elon himself
of its incredible intelligence density.
Not to mention the flagship model of 3.5
series is now the third best open-
source model while being nearly two
times smaller than the number one model
GLM5. So, so far so good, right? Which
is why this news of Justin Lynn stepping
down caught everyone off guard. The main
reason behind this is that even though
Justin Lynn oversees Quinn, it is still
under Alibaba Cloud's Tong E Lab, which
is overseen by the CTO of Alibaba Cloud.
And the CTO has recently made decisions
to break Quinn from a vertical
integration into different and separate
departments that merge into Tonge Lab.
This is all to better support the
application and user side of Quinn, but
would result in Justin Lynn having less
control over the model making process as
his department will get basically
chopped up and merged into different
parts of the organization. However,
Justin Lynn stepping down is probably
not because of his ego, but the
consequence of separating the
departments goes against the current AI
competition landscape. In fact, he's the
one that wants to improve the
communications between departments for
the longest time. and doing this will
have a negative blow on the efficiency.
While he has also spent a good amount of
time trying to assemble the best team to
improve the R&D process, Justin has
always believed that all of
pre-training, post-training, and even
infrastructure should jointly operate to
improve communication. And ever since
last year, Quinn has started to train
their own infrastructure people because
the compute that they use are actually
handled by a separate infrastructure
team, Alibaba cloud has that they would
need to communicate with separately.
While that team is not dedicated to them
but are also handling other requests
from other departments in this AI
economy, building your own
infrastructure team that only focuses on
model making is extremely important. Not
only they can save you money, they can
improve the training process and speed.
They are also the ones that influence
the training process the most because if
the training is down, they are basically
the first responders and leaving compute
on idle for maybe a few hours can cost a
lot of money. For comparison, you can
also see how good Deep Seek's
infrastructure teams are in both
training and inferencing, which helps
them to keep their cost down, train
extremely efficiently, and serve it at a
pretty good margin. So, my take on this
situation is the higher-ups did not like
how Justin is trying to gather all these
resources to try to put everything into
a vertical integration and as a result
gain a lot of influences in the company,
which puts him in a really strong and
important role of AI leadership within
Alibaba. On top of they are also
potentially taking and stepping into
other teams resources. So the CTO
decided to split up whatever he's trying
to build even though Justin is doing
this all for Alibaba. All I can think of
right now is this is such a waste of
talent especially someone with such a
clear vision. He not only put together
LMS but also led multimodal coding
agents, speech models, image
generations, video generations, open
source stack infrastructure and just
pretty much everything that Quinn has
ever published. and his work ethics is
just incredible. Like according to this
tweet, he would stay up till 6:00 a.m.
to provide day one support for
third-party model hostings. Some Chinese
nisonens also said that Justin is the
youngest ever P10 in Alibaba, where P10
roughly equates to a principal software
development engineer often related to a
core tech lead developer. So this huge
resonation definitely influences other
day ones at Quinn to also resign with
him. From this, I kind of completely
understand now why the CEO of Deep Sea
doesn't want any external influences
into his company because it's just so
easy to lose control over some pointless
corporate chain of command that will
impact efficiency. Some people said that
apparently this move by the CTO is to
better support app features and boost
DAUs which stands for daily active users
as competitors like BYEN are killing it
with DBA. But an important note here is
that Biden's has different culture and
different teams that compete with each
other internally. So even though the DAU
is high, it does not sound that great of
a place for R&D. To make the matter
worse, while Quinn has been here for the
longest, Kimi and Zai are all surpassing
Quinn in the Lunar New Year sprint. And
the higher ups were probably like, "Oh,
this ain't good." Even though Quinn is a
renowned model series. I mean, still
Alibaba higher ups already think like
free model doesn't pay the bill, right?
So, the pressure to monetize has made
the higher ups pivoting Quinn to adopt
consumer product metrics like DAU, which
in my honest opinion, Quinn is
fundamentally a base model research team
and you are making it to solve a
marketing and application problem. It's
like putting a square peg in a round
hole. It just wouldn't fit. Another
interesting quote is that it seems like
Coin is struggling to secure compute for
research. Even though their parent
company is literally a cloud compute
provider. So with those two just being
startups, yet capable of out competing a
billion-doll tech firm like Alibaba, it
kind of makes sense now. What is the
future of Quinn then? The day after
Justin Lynn posted that he is stepping
down, Alibaba CEO Eddie Woo confirmed
his departure in an internal memo.
Additionally, the CTO will continue to
lead to Tong E Lab, but a new foundation
model group will be co-led by him, the
CEO, and Fen Yu with a confirmation that
Alibaba will stick with its open- source
model strategy, which I lowkey don't
know how long that's going to hold up.
So hopefully Quinn will not go down the
meta route. Another important note is
that the resination was probably also a
negotiation strategy, but I guess that
didn't work out either. But anyways,
they claim that Alibaba will double down
on its open-source model strategy,
ramping up AI R&D and strengthening
talent recruitment. But ramping up
definitely sounds ironic when you let go
the person that essentially grew the
whole model series and pretty much
everything. And again, to make the
matter worse, after this internal memo,
another not really good look also came
out from the Alibaba PR team, basically
saying that Justin Lynn is not of core
importance. He's just been active on
overseas social media channels. The soul
of Quinn is still Alibaba partner and
Ali Cloud CTO. I'm just speechless when
I read this. It just feels like Alibaba
Cloud CTO sank the Quinn project over
his ego or something. But yeah, what do
you think? Would Quinn ever recover from
this? Let me know down in comments. And
after today's video, if you want to
learn even more about the technical side
of LMS in depth, check out my latest
project, intuitive.academy, academy
where you can learn all the technical LM
concepts intuitively. The goal for this
project is to help you break down LMS
without drowning you in maths as I
personally think anyone could understand
how it actually works under the hood. So
you can pretty much follow it like
reading a novel. I am also adding more
and more advanced topics like fully
covering Laura and Moe from its history
to its current most popular forms. So if
you want to learn LMS from scratch all
the way to the most advanced topics,
this is the perfect place for you. Right
now, I'm also putting out an early bird
discount, so you can use the code early
for 40% off a yearly plan. And thank you
guys for watching. A big shout out to
Spam Match, Chris Loo, Degan, Roberts,
Aviasa, Marcelo, Ferraria, Proof, and
Enu, DX Research Group, Alex Midwest
Maker, and many others that support me
through Patreon or YouTube. Follow me on
Twitter if you haven't and I'll see you
in the next